1. What does thrift do ?
    There's a lot of repeated work you have to do when you're writing a server - primarily designing a protocol and writing code to serialize and deserialize messages on the protocol, but also dealing with sockets and managing concurrency, and writing clients in many languages. Thrift automatically does all of this, given a description of the functions you want to expose from your server to clients. It's also useful for serializing data on disk or into shared memory (where many of the same problems come up)

2. Transport
   The Transport layer provides a simple abstraction for reading/writing from/to the network. This enables Thrift to decouple the underlying transport from the rest of the system (serialization/deserialization, for instance).
3. Protocol
    The Protocol abstraction defines a mechanism to map in-memory data structures to a wire-format. In other words, a protocol specifies how datatypes use the underlying Transport to encode/decode themselves. Thus the protocol implementation governs the encoding scheme and is responsible for (de)serialization. Some examples of protocols in this sense include JSON, XML, plain text, compact binary etc.
4. Processor
    A Processor encapsulates the ability to read data from input streams and write to output streams. The input and output streams are represented by Protocol objects. Service-specific processor implementations are generated by the compiler. The Processor essentially reads data from the wire (using the input protocol), delegates processing to the handler (implemented by the user) and writes the response over the wire (using the output protocol).

